Okay.
Thank you for our next talk.
Our next talk is by Mariam.
She is going to talk about, or give us a hybrid networking stack demo.
Thank you.
Hi, everyone.
My name is Mariam Tehan.
I'm a software engineer at Red Hat.
Today I'm going to talk to you about a concept I've been researching.
I've coined hybrid networking stacks.
If anybody has better names as well, I'm open to the suggestion.
What I'm going to do is I'm actually going to introduce what a hybrid networking stack
is.
We're going to talk a little bit about an open source project called Cloud Native Data
Plane, or CNDP, that gives us an example of such a networking stack, or at least some
components of it.
We're going to have a live demo with a star there, because we're going to cross our fingers
and toes and pray that it all goes to plan.
After that, I will try and sum up what we discussed, and hopefully there will be some
time for Q&A at the end.
Okay.
What is a hybrid networking stack?
Well, it's actually a networking stack for applications that want to take advantage of
the XDP hook, and AFXDP in particular, without having to re-implement the full networking
stack in user space, but rather lean on the existing Linux stack.
It relies very heavily on the concept of control plane and user plane separation.
Parts of the stack can run in user space, and other parts of the stack can run in the
kernel, and even if they're part of the control plane, they can run either in kernel or user
space, and the same for the user plane aspect.
You can run stuff either in the kernel or in user space as part of that networking stack
concept.
This concept relies very heavily on the principle of classifying traffic into application-specific
traffic and non-application-specific traffic.
Application-specific traffic is redirected to the user plane, and non-application-specific
traffic is redirected to the control plane to be handled.
So in that way, applications only really need to process the types of traffic that they're
interested in.
What's really important then is that you filter this type of traffic as early as possible
in your networking stack.
If your NIC hardware supports that filtering, you can take advantage of that.
If it doesn't, then you can always rely on EBPF at the XDP hook to be able to do that
level of filtering for you.
In the example I'm showing here on the slide, you can probably consider FRR and the Linux
networking stack the control plane.
FRR is just an open source routing protocol suite that's for Linux.
Then on the user plane site, you would consider the CNET graph from CNDP, your data plane
or user plane for this demo.
The CNET stack that comes with CNDP, I'll just talk about it for a minute before we
dive into the next topic, is based on the graph architecture from VPP.
With VPP, the concept was that you could build your whole application or parts of the stack
that you want to leverage using a graph.
Then your packets are processed by traversing each node in this graph.
They're processed in batches as well to keep your instruction cache relatively warm and
you got all the performance benefits from doing all of that good stuff.
The CNET stack is based on the exact same concept as that and obviously as your packets
traverse the nodes, they're either terminated as part of that stack, they're either forwarded
on or they're dropped depending on the decision that was determined previously by the control
plane piece for your application.
Let me introduce CNDP to you folks.
CNDP or Cloud Native Data Plane is an open source framework for Cloud Native packet processing
applications.
It's actually built on the performance principles of VPP and DPDK but it doesn't have any of
the resource demands or constraints as it's completely abstracted from the underlying
infrastructure.
It actually is completely written using standard Linux libraries also.
What CNDP gives you is really three things.
The first thing it gives you is a set of user space libraries for accelerating packet processing
for your cloud application or service.
The second thing that CNDP gives you is that CNET graph is part of the hybrid networking
stack and also a NetLink agent that's capable of communicating with the kernel to retrieve
relevant information like routing information and so on.
The last thing that CNDP gives you are the Kubernetes components to be able to provision
and manage actually more so an AFXDP deployment than just a CNDP one.
Those components are the AFXDP device plugin which provisions the NetDevs that you want
to use for AFXDP and advertises them up to Kubernetes as a resource pool that your pods
can then request when they come up.
You have the AFXDP CNI which plums your AFXDP NetDev from the host network namespace into
the pod network namespace.
Just one last point on CNDP before we move on is that it actually supports multiple packet
IO backends, not just AFXDP, but for the purposes of this hybrid networking stack we've focused
in on AFXDP itself.
Okay so it's nearly demo time.
So what am I going to show you?
I'm actually going to show you a CNDP FRR v-router that we built.
Originally I set out to see could I build some sort of a hybrid networking stack application
that could accomplish DPDK-like speeds but leverage completely card and smarts.
The scenario we came up with was that we would have two clients, client one and client two,
residing in two different networks, network one and network three.
They're interconnected via a pair of v-routers which learn routes using OSPF.
What the demo is going to be is we're actually going to bring up four Docker containers,
client one, CNDP FRR one.
We actually call this container CNDP FRR two but for the purposes of the demo I'm only
going to run FRR in it just to show it full interworking and client two will then be our
last Docker container.
At the start of the demo we're just going to bring everything up.
No FRR will be running, no CNET stack will be running and so when we try to bring from
client two to client one we're going to see nothing happen.
Then we're going to bring up all the components in part, see the routes being learned, hopefully
have a successful ping and maybe even run an IPRF session between client one and client
two also.
If we just zoom into this CNDP FRR node for one second I just want to show you one thing
I guess.
We can see here it's going to have two VE interfaces, one connected to net one and the
other connected to net two and these are here.
We're going to inject an EBPF program on the XDP hook that's going to filter all UDP traffic
to CNET graph and non UDP traffic to the Linux networking stack.
Actually one of the other things I'm going to show you is that we're not going to see
ICMP traffic traverse through CNET and then when we run IPRF with UDP traffic we're going
to see the actual traffic flow through CNET also.
Here we go.
Let's just check that we have nothing running.
Yep, that's fine.
I presume everybody can see the text.
All the script is doing is setting up the four containers and the relevant networking
between them right now.
We can ignore the permission denied, we pretend we didn't see that for now.
We actually see we have four Docker containers here, client one, client two, CNET PFR1 and
CNET PFR2.
If we try to ping from client two, we're going to ping client one from client two.
Essentially nothing happens.
We're going to start up our FRR agent on CNET PFR1 as well as the CNET graph.
Sorry about the formatting.
It looked a lot better when I was presenting.
The key part here is if we try and check the routes, what we see is the two net devs that
are attached to CNET PFR1 vrouter.
Most importantly we just see network one and network two.
Let's start up the FRR agent on this node.
If we have a look at the information that's been set up so far, we can see this vrouter
has an IP address.
It's adding network one and network two to the same OSPF area.
If we try to show IP, OSPF neighbor at this point, it hasn't learned anything because
we haven't started FRR on the other vrouter.
Let's go ahead and do that.
This vrouter has an IP address and is adding network two and network three to the same
OSPF area.
If we show the OSPF neighbor, it's picked up its opposite end of the vrouter.
If we do the same on this NNDPFR1, it's also learned about the other route via OSPF as well.
At this point, if we try to ping from client two to client one, we can ping.
If we check the routes on CNDP, we have the new network three added in.
Just to show you that no traffic is flowing through CNDP, this is ETH0 stats for RX and
TX.
We see they're still zero and the same for ETH1.
Let's kill that off for the moment and try and run an IPER for UDP session between client
one and client two.
This time we should see traffic flow through the CNET graph.
If we check here, you can see an increment in the stats.
This doesn't show as nice as I hope.
Let's kill the app.
Let's try it one more time.
Unfortunately, I won't be able to get this right just yet.
There we go.
Let's try and run it one more time.
Sorry folks, bear with me.
We can see IP4 input nodes at the top here and IP4 forward node and they're passing UDP
traffic through those nodes.
We're not going to the UDP nodes that are listed there because obviously traffic isn't
destined for the CNDP, FRR, they're destined for the client attached to it.
That's why they're forwarded on.
Applications can also hook on to the CNET graph via a socket-like architecture.
All the function calls look exactly the same like a socket except it's just called a channel
and you prefix all of your normal socket calls with channel underscore before hooking up
into the CNET graph.
That's the demo.
The next step was to essentially take that CNDP FRR router and put it through a heck of
a lot of permutations in terms of interfaces that we hooked it up to leveraging things
like XDP redirects between the two VRR instances and so on to try and see what kind of levels
of performance could we push this to.
What we noticed was for AFXDP the performance is completely dependent on the deployment
scenario.
For north-south traffic that was coming in on a physical interface or out of a physical
interface with AFXDP in native mode, so hooked in at the XDP hook, we actually had this example
yielded comparable performance to DPDK.
However, when we moved to something that was completely local to a node, so east-west type
traffic with all virtual interfaces and AFXDP, while the performance was still better than
vanilla VE for AFXDP in native mode, it wasn't what we had expected it to be.
There's definitely some level of optimization that we need to look into on that front.
And then we tried one other thing which is AFXDP in generic mode, so that's your program
hooked in at the TC hook and that actually yielded better performance than native mode,
but again that goes into some optimization requirements are needed on that front.
So just to sum up, I guess, we set out to show was it possible to build some sort of
a hybrid networking stack.
I think the building blocks are there for sure.
I think we've demonstrated that it is possible to do something like that, especially for
these high performance use cases that want to take advantage of in kernel fast paths
and essentially XDP and AFXDP.
There's obviously an opportunity as well to make sure that we hook in EBPF a lot more
into the puzzle, especially from the user plane aspect, not everything has to go into
user space and so on.
So I just want to summarize in terms of generic challenges that we have noted for AFXDP.
The first one is that we still can't take advantage of hardware offloads.
It's been great to see the XDP hence KFunk support getting merged into the Linux kernel
or at least agreed on as model and then merged which has been fantastic and it will form
a great cornerstone for a lot of this work.
The only thing that I would ask is that we make sure that for the containerized environment
we put the onus on the infrastructure to lifecycle manage the BPF programs and to take that level
of responsibility and privilege out of the scope of the application.
So the application doesn't need to know any special formats or have to, especially if
they're using AFXDP, they don't need to know any special formats or have to do special
combinations of BPF programs or anything along those lines.
That should all be managed on the infrastriate.
The next thing that's been a gap was really Jumbo frame or multi buffer support for AFXDP
but we've seen lots of activity on that in the last couple of months on the mailing list
so hopefully that's something that we can take off the list very, very soon.
And lastly, there's going to be some need for some level of optimization of AFXDP in
native mode for VEats.
And just some links for folks that are interested on some of the stuff that we used for this
talk.
Sorry.
Yep, so thank you very much folks for your time.
I really appreciate it.
And it's been a pleasure while presenting on my first post-dem.
It's like a bucket list I actually ticked off there.
So thanks a lot.
Thank you for the talk.
We do have ample time for questions.
Thank you for the presentation.
I have a question about XDP.
So does it run on hardware or is it in software?
The XDP hook itself is typically supported by the drivers.
So actually I think there's a good host of drivers that support them right now, most
of the Intel ones, a good few of the Mellanox ones as well.
The thing with AFXDP is if the hook isn't natively supported by the driver, it automatically
falls back to the TC hook, which is what we call generic mode, and it still works there
except that you don't get the raw buffer from the driver.
You will essentially be working with the equivalent of an SKV.
So there's some level of allocation and copy that happens there before you can process
the package.
Okay, understood.
Thank you.
More questions.
Okay, then.
Thank you for the talk.
Thank you for being here.
Thank you very much.
Really appreciate it.
Thank you.